From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 64. Recorded
live Thursday, April 28th, 2011. Support for
Hansel minutes is provided by
Tellerik rad controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Glenn block
about the new WCF. Hi,
this is Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
This episode of Hansel minutes
is actually being recorded in
the Netherlands. We are here
at the tech days, dev
days events in Belgium and
the Netherlands. And I'm sitting
here with Glenn block. How
are you, sir? I'm doing
great. How are you doing,
man? I am exhausted. I've
given three talks today and
I've got another one in
an hour. So yes, we're
having a blast out here.
Good times. Good times. Definitely.
Now folks know you from
a meth, the managing sensibility
framework, but about a year
ago you moved into another
group, another three letter acronym.
Where are you now that
you see? Okay. So in
math you were all about
plugging components together and you
know, this kind of Lego
way that has been that
metaphor I've been pushing. I
just used that in my
talk yesterday. I said handsome.
I had a meth talk.
So yes, I'm still very
much attached to it, passionately
and somebody, you know, and
I was talking about Legos
and I was saying how
I've always loved the whole
Lego metaphor. So I'm all
over what Scott's talking about.
Very cool. And now you're
plugging stuff together using, using
Jason and XML and we're
plugging services rather than plugging
in process components. Yes. So
you're a program manager at
Microsoft. What is, what is
your current thing that you're
pimping right now? Something new
that we announced at PDC,
which is called the web
API. And it's basically an
evolution of taking WCF forward
for offering a better experience
for folks that want to
expose their capabilities over HDP
to a range of devices.
Some could be browsers, but
usually if it was a
browser, it might be some
J query that's running. But
at the same time, there
might be other clients which
could even be other servers
that are not browsers that
are talking. And it really
is about leveraging HTTP to
its full extent. And also
it's not about transport independence,
which is really what WCF
has traditionally been about. It's
completely focused on what do
I need to do? Give
me an ideal experience for
building things over HDP, which
includes things like rest. Okay.
So that was a long
elevator speech. You know how
they always tell you, if
you want to sell something,
You sell it as if
you're on an elevator trip.
And I was talking to
a guy a couple of
days ago, he was giving
me his elevator speech was
about 20 minutes long. And
I said, I've long, got
off the elevator here. So
let me back down, back
up and then break up
what you said. Cause there's
actually a lot of information
there. So WCF windows, communication
foundation, that's the services like
soap and Ws, Ws, star
Ws. MSMQ Right. And all
those kind of enterprisey things
that I worked on for
many, many, many years. Yes.
That's all over in that
organization. And they do big
corporate stuff. Like if you're
talking to Java and things,
you'll use SAML tokens and
all those kinds of services
and people may turn their
nose up at them, but
they run like all the
world's financial services and insurance
companies. So that's WCF kind
of traditional on the MVC
side and the group that
I work in web platform
and tools, I can make
a MVC application in returns
from Jason. That's kind of
a little service. It's a,
maybe a poor man's service.
Yes. What you're describing it's
when you say WCF there's
baggage, that goes along with
the name. W I was
aware of that when I
joined the team. So WCF
kind of seems like a,
Let's just say that there've
been perceptions. There've been slides
with WCF where Darth Vader
was used to represent that
WSU. Was that one of
your, I can't say, I
can't say who would have
done such a thing, but,
well, there were also Rastafarian's
slides as well. I don't
think of like web 2.0
and lightweight API and rest,
and then WCF in the
same breath. Is this like
a kinder, gentler WCF? I
would say yes. And I
think you need to shift
your thinking cause it's definitely
a foe and of course
I need to make, you
know, we need to convince
you that you should shift
your thinking. You shouldn't just
shift your thinking because I
say that, but we've, you
know, we've looked at the
industry. I think that we've
seen a shift. We've seen
a lot of customers coming
and saying, look, fundamentally, I
do care about services as
you mentioned, but I don't
care about services that are
so based. I care about,
I want devices. I want
my iOS and my Android,
for example, or the windows
phone or other types of
devices to be able to
consume my functionality. Because that's
really all about creating more
customer value. You know, we're
in this world now where
it's no longer about your
PC, that's beyond the, behind
the firewall and you run
my software and you install
it. It's like, look, if
you don't meet my needs,
I'm not going to use
it. If you don't give
me a Yelp app on
the windows phone. I mean,
for me, like when y'all,
until Yelp came to the
windows phone and it's still
don't know why Groupon's not
there, I was, you know,
it really impacts my do
want to keep this device
or not. I don't say
I might not keep my
computer because you're making me
install this software. So WCF
before, when, when people would
give presentations years ago, when
it came out, they would
say the ABCs of WC
contract address, binding and contract,
and they basically made services
over anything. And they would
always give presentations like, look,
I can do soap via
email, or I can do
this contract over that binding
and this TP, but HTTP
one 99% of the time.
And people say that WCF
brings along a lot of
baggage when I just want
HTTP. Yes. So we've, and
I agree with that statement
a hundred percent. So you're
preaching to the choir here.
We've spent the last year.
You're investing To have an
experience in WCF that is
completely targeting HDP, and that
is addressing many of those
concerns we've heard. And the
way I look at it
as like this, you say
baggage and I use the
exact same thing. I say,
if you're giving me an
API, who's strong point is
it can talk over multi
transport and it's abstracting me
away from the details I
actually need in the name
of flexibility that I'm not
going to use. That's just
baggage. Okay. That was, you
just did a great job
of kind of describing my
experience with WCF, the idea
that you've hidden, what I
care about and taking the
things that I need to
get done and made them
obscure and you know, off
in a corner somewhere. And
I think if you look
at what people have liked
about what we've been doing,
and I have to say
that so far 99.9% of
the response that we've received
since PDC, as people really
like the direction you hear
things like it's about time.
Thank God. And just to
give it some context, it's
not just about HTTP. It's
also about simplifying the developer
experience. And I think we've
taken a lot of inspiration
from your org, caring about
things like conventions and IOC
containers and testability and simplifying
configuration, where you can do
stuff in code, like the
way you can do it
in routing. And also I
used to describe WCF as
kind of like the cockpit
of a plane. You know,
you walk in and it
can do a million different
things, but you've got 800
switches in front of you.
And you've got to learn
about those 800 switches. So
you know which ones you
need to turn. Well, when
all I want to do
is just go forward and
then up exactly The model
we have now is a
default experience that works in
the most common ways that
people expect it to work.
And the way that we're
addressed, the way that we're
achieving that is we're working
with customers to tell us
what that needs to be.
We're not sitting there in
a lab somewhere where we're,
you know, we've been working
tightly with customers from day
one before any, before the
first lines of code were
written. Okay. But where does
it intersect? Because with, well,
not just with MVC, but
I mean, there's, there's, there's,
there's IAS the web server,
you know, there's windows at
the bottom level, there's S
and as you move up,
there's you get into from
IAS, you get into manage
code from medics code over
in, in, in asp.net. We
talk about how asp.net is
the core. It's the fundamental
and NVC web forms and
web pages are just three
different kind of sides of
the same coin. If I
can mix my metaphors. Sure.
But ultimately they're just making
angle brackets. 99% of the
things that we make in
asp.net are angle brackets. Why
couldn't I also make Jason
and all sorts of other
services and things. Why wouldn't
I design the new, you
know, Twitter API with NVC.
So I think there's a
question of, so first off
you had a question before
about what's the difference between
this baby service? I think
baby services, a nice way
to describe it. The biggest
thing I would say is,
and from what we've seen,
the majority of folks that
are returning a Jason result
from MVC really are, it's
an API, but it's an
API that is a more
of a direct communication between
my page to my service.
I want to have a
more responsive UI experience and
I want to use jQuery.
And in order to do
that, I've got to be
able to return Jason. So
it makes sense. Okay. So
let's, let's break that down.
Cause I think that that
may have gone over a
few people's heads. Okay. This
scenario that you're describing an
NVC is such that I
have a page that's an
HTML and it's, it is
guaranteed that it will be
viewed in a browser by
a human. And they're going
to use the client side
jQuery to make a call
almost always back to myself
or another similar page with
Jason and then retrieved from
Jason. It's. Usually I do
a small post with a
small payload and I retrieved
back a bunch of stuff.
And then I do something
with it in a, you
made, you made that the
term baby service. It's a,
it's a simple service. There's
nothing protecting. If it's not
focused on third party consumption,
it's folk, it's an implementation
detail of providing a better
experience to my website. The
way I would argue Different
you you're, you're, you're kind
of drawing a distinction between
api.twitter.com that a third party
might use. And perhaps some
services that twitter.com is using
to, to give itself what
it needs. I honestly don't
know, actually, if twitter.com calls
back into its own API,
wouldn't I want, and in
a perfect world to consume
my own service, eat my
own dog food. As they
say, You think people will.
The difference I would say
is, well, first off one
of the tenants, well, you
said a couple of things.
I want to step back
a second. If I can.
One of the things that
you said was how we're
just looking at different angle
brackets, as you know, the
different models we have, whether
it's web pages or this
or that, it's over ASP
dinette. Fundamentally what we're doing
is still over WCF WCF.
One of the things you
could never criticize WCF about
was being too extensible. It
turns out it's so extensible
that using the existing pieces,
we were able to swap
from top to bottom the
implementations of some of those
core pieces to offer a
very pure HTP story. So
it may have gone deeper.
Like I think with IAS,
there's a lot of places
where you just don't touch
and then it's just layered
on top. We probably went
deeper than that, but it's
still fundamentally like we have
a channel stack. We do
have a contract. The contract
though is not in your
face anymore. It's more implicit.
It doesn't get in your
way. And why that's important
is in the soap world,
your contract has to be
very explicit because you're sharing
this custom thing to the
world and you want them
to be able to generate
code off of it, like
creating a proxy. None of
those are key drivers for
what we're doing now. So,
and the other go ahead.
Well, I will stop there.
I understand. I know that
you can talk about this
at length because here at
the, at the, the conference
here in the Netherlands and
in Belgium, you've actually already
done three talks and have,
have even more to go.
So I know you can
speak at length. It's fine.
Stop me. But no, it's
Hansel minutes though. It's not
Hansel hour. So here, here's
something I'm trying to, I'm
trying to kind of put
together in my head, as
I, as I listened to
you here, would you say
that, you know, for web
pages for interactions, asp.net is
good at that? Yes. And
then baby services. And then
of course the old, what
they call the ASM mix
stack. Yes. An X for
webpages, sophisticated interactions and basic
services, asp.net as appropriate. Absolutely.
But when you outgrow those
basic services, then you move
to WCF. And let me
give you a call, hang
on. I'm almost done. I
would say yes, that's correct.
And well, it might be
conceivable on the other side
of that, I could maybe
design something with WCF that
would make it serve HTML.
I could, you could and
even have interactions and it
would actually be its own
thing that is not asp.net.
I would quickly outgrow that
and I would want to
use asp.net. Let me give
you an example of that.
Somebody has taken razor. So
one of the things we've
done in our new stack
is make it really easy
to plug in whatever representations
you want. It's not just
about XML and Jason anymore.
And if you watch, I
recommend you watch my mixed
talk, where I show how
you can integrate with Google
contacts in a very rich
way. By returning this thing
called V card, which is
not texts. I mean, it's
not XML, it's not Jason.
It's a completely different type
of markup, but it highlights
the power that HDB has.
And why that's really interesting
is soap was a myth
soap. I wouldn't say soap
was a myth. So pad,
the idea that all these
systems will integrate through one
format. What you find when
you go to HTP is
there are thousands of formats
and those formats are all
tailored very specifically like the
card, a very specific way
to express an electronic business
card. So where we become
interesting is when Jason is
not the only thing that
you're interested in, you want
to talk to systems that
have proprietary formats that are
industry-wide accepted and have a
good, you know, a good
experience for doing it. The
other thing you find out
is when you're in the
browser, all the concerns of
HTP are taken care of
for you. Once you get
outside of the browser and
to non browser clients, if
you want to leverage the
benefits that the web has
to provide for you, you
have to be a lot
more proactive in doing things
that the browser just took
care of for you. You're
talking about things like caching
in each side, Eggs, all
that stuff. Yes. Hi, this
is Scott coming to you
from another place in time.
Are you using agile practices
to manage your software development?
There's lots of tools in
the market that manage the
steps of a project, but
most of them focus on
individual roles. Get ready for
a solution that caters for
the success of the whole
team. Guys at Tellerik introduced
team pulse to an agile
project management tool that will
help you gather ideas, estimate
plan, track progress in a
common workspace. Finally companies, regardless
of their size can use
a lightweight and convenient tool
that makes all the stakeholders
work as a United team.
Even if they're in different
countries by combining intuitive user
interface and the power server
light team poles removes the
roadblocks that you typically face
and applying agile in an
effective manner, no more lost
data, no disparate systems, no
lack of critical analytics regarding
the health and philosophy project.
See if yourself get a
free copy for five users
in one project at tellerik.com/team
pulse. And please do thank
tolerance for supporting Hansel minutes
on their Facebook fan page,
facebook.com/t L E R I
K Keller. We do appreciate
it. It wouldn't be a
handsome it's if there wasn't,
Tellerik helping us. Yeah. A
lot of people just think
that HDP is just a
matter of saying get, but
honestly spend some time and
I've done this in banking
for things like caching, which
is a huge deal in
banking. Not only do you
have security and things, but
you have ear tags, if
not modified since how to
manage all those things, private
cash, public clash, no cash,
and how all those things
behave. Those are some, some
really nice functionality is involved.
HTTP is a lot more
than just a couple of
verbs. It is. And the
way I look@asp.net is not
that you can't do it
there. You can do it
in MVC. Some people are
doing it. What I would
say is that we're being
more specific and intentional as
opposed to Hey, asp.net does
a lot of things. And
here's how you could do
this. We're saying our whole
mission is to provide a
really good experience for doing
this. So, you know, we're
studying the HTP spec, we're
working with people that are
experts around HDP and saying,
you know, once you get
beyond pages, what are the
things that you need? So
I'd say that's one big
difference. The other difference is
that WCF has always offered
multiple hosting options. There are
people that are hosting WCF,
where there was no IIS,
it's a desktop application or
some just console service that
I spin up. And that
has always been one of
the values of WCF that
it supports these multiple hosts,
which is not interesting to
everybody, but there are customers
that are interested that say,
look, I just got this
backend server that needs to
just talk to some data
or maybe it's internal. Okay.
So let me see if
I understand then if we
kind of use this Lego
metaphor in, in my example,
MVC snaps on top of
asp.net, which snaps on top
of IAS. And I can
snap additional layers on top
of MVC to, as I
have, make an eye Cal
for like nerdina.com or make
an RSS feed. You're saying
that WCF is Snapple such
that it can even be
snapped together outside of ISDN
entirely. Oh yeah. I could
write the Scott service host
something internally that would return,
you know, I Cal calendar
requests over HTTP And we
have customers that are interested
in that. Yes, you can
take today. If you go
to our bits on code
flex new, up in HTTP
service hosts, give it a
URI, call the call, the
open method. You've got a
lightweight server. Okay. But it's
like you said, it's not
going to solve. It's not
going to give me model
binding and validation and all
this other stuff. It's not
designed for that. But it
is designed to say, if
this is the kind of
thing that's important to you,
like talking to iOS and
Android and all these other
devices natively that understand different
formats, as well as maybe
talking to an atom feed
viewer, or like you mentioned
ICAP, great example, then it's
more targeted for those kinds
of scenarios. Excuse me. I
have two questions here. One
is, do you think that
customers are going to be
able to kind of deal
with the idea that there
is this Venn diagram, these
two circles that intersect just
a little bit asp.net and
WCF, where there, there are
some, some scenarios, some basic
scenarios where you can do
it in both. Yep. And
what about those customers that
like that kind of lightweight,
fresh, clean Snapple way that
asp.net MVC does who don't
trust WCF because of the
sins of the father? So
I think a, one of
the reasons why we've been
working vehemently with the community
since this effort started is
we know that that exists
and the best way to
change that is to pull
the people in, to work
with us. I never liked
to stand there on any
of the platform technologies I've
worked on. I never liked
to stand there and tell
you what's going to make
your life better. I want
some other guy who's using
it to say it made
his life better. That gives
us credibility. And so we've
been working with a large
number of people to, to,
and been very visible out
front to make sure that
we can and, and everybody
who has seen it has
actually said, Oh my God,
I had written off WCF.
And this is looking interesting
or, Oh, this is looking
great. So I, that's a
positive. We do have work
to do. One thing we
have to do is give
guidance that says, look, if
MVC is working for you,
you don't have to change
like use, use what works.
I'm a big proponent of
that, That this is part
of the whole kind of
open source Lego philosophy is
that, Hey man, use what
makes you happy if the
shoe doesn't fit, buy different
shoes. Exactly. You and I
have to think, you know,
you, me, Phil, Steve Sanderson,
Damien Edwards, we're all have
the same kind of mind
where ultimately just do what
makes you happy? Do what
makes you feel productive? And
that's, that's cool. So I
recognize that you're not, you
don't want to push this
on anybody on anybody. You
want them to try it.
And if they like it,
then maybe they'll tell their
friends. Exactly. And you know,
I think that's orthogonal. Like
if the community came to
us and said, Hey, you
know, could we do more
to make a more seamless
experience on MVC? I know
personally I'd be a huge
fan of doing that so
far. I think what we've
seen, and I think it's
a product of where we're
at rest is not young,
but rest in the way
we're starting to use it
is. And because of that,
I think there's a lot
of people in NBC land
today that are just thinking
about, say jQuery to a
front, end, that over time
with the proliferation of devices
and things, this may start
to become more important to
them. But right now it's
not. So people have seen
what we're doing. And even
a lot of folks from
the MVC credit said, that's
great. Awesome. I love the
direction that you're going. It's
much better than what was
there before. We're not seeing
a lot of people that
are struggling and saying, Oh,
why would I use this
over NBC? It does come
up. The positioning that I
like to take is it's
about motivations. I think when
I come to asp.net, I
start with the idea of
building a site over time.
As I start to move
towards more rich UI, or
maybe suddenly new devices do
show up, I may say,
well, I'm over an MVC
already. It's easy enough for
me to do it myself,
depending on what I'm doing.
As you mentioned, like ear
tags and other stuff that
may be easy or not.
I think that fundamentally MVC
is a really good architecture.
So there's lots of things
you can plug in, but
is it something that the
team is going to be
focused on building or is
it going to be something
that you're going to be
doing yourself or using from,
from the community? But again,
I still think it starts
with the site and over
time, there's a bit of
bleed. On the other side
are companies where they were
just building soap services. They
don't even know anything about
websites. They've used WCF. And
now they see that what
they thought was going to
be the answer for everything
is not, but they want
to still offer that same
functionality to other kinds of
devices. And so they will
look at web API and
they'll get into jQuery because
they'll say one of the
consumers is going to be
jQuery. Front ends Keep mentioning
other devices. And you can,
you said iOS a couple
of times and Android help
me understand if I'm going
to go into liver, a
website to iOS, then I,
you know, I'll use different
markup. I'll use different CSS
rules and different JavaScript. But
are you talking about delivering
services in a format that
a particular device would really
Absolutely. Let's let's use your
ICL example. Let's say I
want to offer up data
that can push right into
my iPads calendar. Right? I
can't wait for Apple to
set in. I could decide
to wait until Apple, you
know, adopts the Microsoft format.
Even something like Oh, data,
which may be a great
Hi Kelly. Kelly will always
be ICL. Exactly. So if
I can talk that format,
I'm going to have a
much richer interaction with that
device. So I would say
that is the example one
great example. And there's, you
know, as I said in
my talk, there's thousands of
different media types. I might
even building an application that's
really specific. It's not something
that every customer is going
to use. It's something to
deal with my company, but
we like, for example, there
are media types for scientific
data, but for our business
need, we want to be
able to richly interact with
applications that understand that format.
There's coded Jason, it's Jason,
but it's a specialized type
of Jason. So it's the
same type of thing. I
think it's where the interactions
go beyond the browser would
be one of the pivotal
points. Okay. Do you think
that these are interactions that
we don't see, like perhaps
MVC and asp.net get kind
of more press because public
websites are coated in this
way and jQuery and Jason
are something that you can
see when you just say
view source, but this kind
of things like scientific usage
or KML or a Google
earth type stuff, or all
these other kinds of things,
we don't really look at
that traffic it's traffic. You
don't see because you can't
go view. That's probably, that's
a great way to look
at it. I think that's
part of it. I think
part of it is a
product of where we are
in the industry as well.
Like I said, rest in
the way that we're starting
to use it now is
still very new. One of
the showcases I've talked about
in terms of customers is
best buy in Comcast as
two recent examples in the
enterprise, which was the traditional
WCF playground that are saying,
we want to take advantage
of HDP for the promises
that offers us. And, you
know, you mentioned how caching,
but it's even more than
that. It's evolve ability. It's
version into, you know, it's
being building systems that are
version tolerant, where I'm exposing
API APIs, but those APRs
are designed in such a
way that I can actually
evolve them and change them
without breaking existing clients. That's
an interesting point. One of
the things that came up
with soap very, very early
on was the notion of
versioning and ultimately a lot
of freaking out happen, but
people just ended up putting
different end points@differentendpointslikeversiononewasatwhatever.com slash .
And that seems to be
the way people are doing
things with services now. And
Jason, yes. Is there something
special that you guys do
around versioning that we should
know about? There's a very
interesting topic, which I think
you covered with Mike Edmonson
on your podcast, which is
known as hypermedia and it's
a scary term, but it
basically means systems drive navigation
through the system through linking
and where it's not UI
navigation. I'm navigating a process,
which is very different than
the way we think about
things. We think about things
where I send a message
and some server decides where
I go next. This is
more like the browser experience,
but for non UI where
the server offers me up
a list of options of
where you can go next.
And at the end of
the day, doing those types
of things requires you to
have a lot of control
over the media type, the
format that is the coupling
in rest. And so we're
making it really easy to
write those types of formats.
And I've just done a
talk on that actually, which,
which got a pretty good
reaction on how you can
build distributed systems that do
complex logic, but that are
version tolerant because they use
hypermedia. So an answer short
answer to your question, it's
not something that Microsoft owns
specifically. It's something that is
inherent in the design of
HTTP. You need a good
platform that enables you to
leverage it. Now, one question
that I think I like
to, I kind of liked
to pick on Microsoft a
little bit. I like to
juxtapose old Microsoft and new
Microsoft old Microsoft would say,
all right, Glenn, who's your
competition in this space, right?
And that gets into the
whole kind of like embrace
and crush style of old
Microsoft. But, you know, we,
we, at least in dev
div are really doing the
best. He's the new, the
new guys and gals to
do things a little differently.
I know that there are
other services out there there's
Nancy, which is a Sinatra,
cologne. Sinatra is a services
system for rails and Ruby
and Nancy is a taught
net reimagination of that. And
Nancy Sinatra kind of a
joke there. There's also Owen
O w I N. And
I had Benjamin Andrew over
from, from kayak. Are those
parallel or  where do
those fit into this larger
ecosystem? I would say that
the work that's being done
with Owen and the works
that's being done, and I'm
involved with Owen, by the
way, I've been involved with
stand for open web interfaces
for.net, I think is the
actual term. It's based on
things that appeared in, in
Ruby and Python and probably
discuss this, you know, in
Ruby there's RAC and in
Python there's whiskey. And it's
a standard set of interfaces
for building a web server.
What I would say is
different is that we're more
specific to the idea of
application functionality being exposed over
API APIs, the work that's
going on with Nancy and
the work that's going on
with kayak and Owen is
all about a lightweight web
server of which yes, you
could layer on top of
it. And to give you
an example of where we're
working with them. One of
our new extensibility points in
WCF and our new web
API is perfect for Owen
because Owen wants to be
able to put, which is
the idea of like reusable
things that I could use
on web server of my
choice. That's what Ruby and
rails and rack brings you.
And we're enabling that. And
we're working with the community
as a matter of fact,
Jason Serota, who's one of
the core people on Owen.
He and I are pairing
up to show how you
will do that with WCF.
Great. So you're saying that
at Owen and Nancy, those
things are a little bit
lower level. Nancy Actually also
is agnostic to host. I
worked with Andreas and they
built a WCF host for
Nancy. So Nancy is higher
up, actually Nancy is Sinatra
is more of like a
programming model. And so now,
and Nancy is saying, Hey,
you could run us on
asp.net. You could run us
on WCF, or you could
run us on kayak and
Owen, ideally Nancy will build
on top of Owen because
Owen will be the standard.
You know, if we think
about common service locator, the
best way I like to
describe Owen, it's almost like
the common service locator of
web servers. Okay. I see
it's mentally attached to it,
right? Yeah. I think another
way to think about it
as in terms of like
an hour glass and hourglass
fans out at the top
and it fans out at
the bottom, but there is
a central thing, a router
that manages that many to
many relationship between things above
it and things below it.
And Owen is that linchpin
that makes it all work
together. Now, one thing that
the people who were listening,
at least for the few
people who have made it
this far into this episode
of Hansel minutes, they may
have just heard a flood
of not just three letter
acronyms, but a flood of
code names that are creative
and fun and interesting, but
ultimately meaningless. I mean, in
terms of Nancy and ONC
and kayak and Owen and
this and that, and frankly,
All about enabling the community,
I think that's the highest
level you can say is
there's a lot of efforts
in the community around building
web servers and you don't,
you can still use those
efforts and use the Microsoft
bits as well. Listener go
to get an understanding of
this. I mean, I know
that I've learned these names
and what they mean, and
I can translate for, you
know, there's like the English
language and then there's what
you and I were just
speaking, which is code name
of technology. Right? Where do
you read? Is there, are
there other websites dedicated to
this kind of work or
do you troll around on
Twitter or do you spend
time in Google groups? Where
do you learn these things?
So that folks who are
listening can either either learn
or get involved? Well, Nancy
and Owen both have the
Google groups, discussion groups. I
don't know exactly which ones,
what the names are, but
we'll go ahead and put
in that's one place to
go. I think Twitter is
a great place to get
aware of a lot of
these things. As a matter
of fact, Owen was born
on Twitter. I mean, it
was born a bunch of
conversations. Nancy was the catalyst
actually for Owen, Nancy came
out and there were a
bunch of other Sinatra clones
out there. And then Scott
Kuhn, a lazy coder on
Twitter came and said, Hey,
this is not the first
Nancy. You know, this is
not the first Sinatra clone.
There's about eight them. Why
don't we all get together
and just come up with
an idea of, you know,
a common way to do
web servers as a community
and work on it together.
And thus Owen was born
and Nancy had also created
its group, but Nancy really
was the catalyst from, from
my perspective that caused all
this flurry. But yeah, it's,
it's just out there. There's
no one, I mean, there
are sites there's like GitHub
and things like that. So
where do I go to
get your new stuff? The
WCF rest API ours is
pretty easy. So first I
would say, it's not a
rest API. We've been very
careful, Oh, I'm sorry. You
can use it. But I
think it's important to mention
that what is it called?
It's called WCF web API,
web API, not specific to
rest because rest is a
very, we've learned a lot.
Rest. What we thought was
rest was not rest. Rest
is a very specific way
of doing things. We want
to enable it, but we're
not forcing it. And we
don't want to imply that
everything you do with our
API is restful WCF dot
code plex.com is where you
can get it. You just
did a big release at
mix of our latest pits
and it, can I get
it in new, get as
well? You can. We actually
launched and we get packages.
If you go to web
API dot all as your
new get package, you will
get all the packages, but
there are individual packages that
they can choose from. There's
about five of them. Okay.
So the, what was it?
Web web, API dot. So
whether it be on a
call, Paul is a Metta
package, a package. That's what
it is. Yes. All right.
Very cool. We'll check that
out. Thank you so much,
Glenn blot for chatting with
me today. Thank you, Scott.
It was wonderful. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes. See you again next
week. .